Vi was born in the woodlands of (), part of a small elf tribe which subsisted off the land. You lived in harmony with the world around you and your only dream in life was to protect this peace.
 
One day whilst you were out hunting, you heard cries of alarm in the distance. You found a human caravan under attack by orcs. With your skill with the bow, you easily fended off the orc raiding party, but not before many in the caravan were dead or dying.
 
You took them back to your tribe in the hopes you could save them, and thanks to the care of the village healers, most survived.
 
Unfortunately, not a week later the orcs came back seeking vengeance, and attacked your village as you slept. Your parents were slaughtered in their sleep. You barely managed to escape the raid.

After many months of travelling you came upon a human settlement, where you hoped your previous kindness would be repaid. You were wrong. The humans were cruel and took no pity on you. After a week of begging on the streets for scraps, work or a simple cot to sleep in, you stole your first coinpurse. You soon became skilled at slicing open bags and stealing precious things. You even learnt how to use your bow silently to punch a hole in a coinpurse and let the gold trickle out.
 
It didn't take long for the town guard to realise it was you, and chase you out of town. You stole and lied your way from town to town until you arrived in Korvosa. A massive city with a well established thieves guild. It didn't take long for them to find you.

Vi was invited to join the thieves guild because she tried to pickpocket a thief with her bow and arrow technique

They took your penchant (affinity) for theft and encouraged you to develop it and hone your skills to the point of perfection. Rising through the ranks, earning gold any way possible, be it stealing, bounties, you name it, Vi would do it. 

The guild had a important mission for Vi, to steal a sealed box from the mansion of a noble. 

During a stay at an inn in the same town as the mansion of the noble, Vi noticed an old man playing a strange instrument but paid him no further attention

Breaking into the mansion was easy, but after grabbing the sealed box, seemingly out of the shadows the old musician appears.


Vi told him to get out of her way, but the old man refused saying that he needed that sealed box.

Vi and the old musician engaged in hand to hand combat, but after a while it became apparently Vi was outmatched and soon her world went black. 
The next thing she knows she awakens bound to a chair inside a log cabin, she could barely make out that this cabin was inside a forest from small cracks in the logs, as the window were darkened.

Vi tried to get herself loose, but the bindings are elaborate and will take some time to get out of. After a while of letting her eyes adjust to the darkness, she noticed the old man standing in a corner of the cabin. 

Vi: why have you kept me alive? 
Old man: because you were just a pawn in the bigger game, and I will not have another innocent death on my hands. 
Vi: a pawn? 
Old man: The guild sent you as a distraction and were tailing you, waiting for a moment to strike. 
Vi: I dont believe you!
The old man sighs and continues. 
Old man: Do you know what is in this sealed box?
Vi: ... no, I assume something valuable?
The old man opens the sealed box and shows Vi a complex brace with a knife mounted on it. 
Old man: This is a blade that can be discreetly extended or retracted from a bracer to make it concealed. This is the preferred weapon of assassins in the guild I was a part of.. long long ago.

Vi: But if you are no longer a part of this assassin guild, why would you need this hidden blade?
Old man: During my retirement, one of my loved ones was robbed and left to die on the side of the road. I couldn’t even get to her fast enough to hear her last words… *the old man slams his fist into a nearby wall* I decided to find my lost blade for one final assassination, the man who robbed and gained from her death. >insert some name<, the bastard. 
Vi: but he is the second in command of the thieves guild!

The old man notices people getting closer to the cabin, and knocks out Vi who wanted to help, saying “pssh you untied yourself half an hour ago. I'm not stupid.” As she faints from this world.
 
When Vi awakes, Vi finds a bag with all her gear, and three addition to it, the guqin and a heavily used assassin blade with a symbol of a nightingale on it, and a note “I saw you liked this, I don't think I'll get to play it much anymore. Enjoy”. 

When Vi walked outside, the ground of the forest was littered with numerous bodies.

Vi: This old man is dangerous, but he left me alive… why…  

This place is no longer safe for me, I should move on and try to find another way of life. Perhaps there is more to life than gold and death. 

You left Korvosa on a ship for Magnemar, and then Sandpoint, where you heard there was an adventurer's guild. During this trip Vi learned to somewhat play the Guqin and entertained herself with the outer and inner workings of the assassin blade, as it might come in handy at some point. 

You hope not to slip back into your old habits and to use your skills to better yourself, but then again, the coin purse is right there....


Old man (basically Ezio di Auditore) 
Reference: https://i.pinimg.com/originals/29/e4/9d/29e49d28f03a3236c5eb2383e00a0a5a.png 
But perhaps even a bit older(but not old age nearly dying Ezio :D)

Guild leader:
Name: Urdras
Description: A strict and lawful (evil cuz still a thief) person
Wearing: Skyrim Master Thief armor

Second in command:
Name: Ravyn
Description: An evil scheming Goblin.

The one who owes Vi a favor:
Name: Karliah
Description: A drow elf who Vi once saved by distracting and shooting the ones chasing her. 
